# Chef's Collection Vision Statement 

‘Chef’s Collection’ app will be a simple tool to help cooks or culinary enthusiasts to collect, organize and manage an electronic ‘Recipe Book’ on their mobile device. The user of the app could be any person who cooks from recipes whether in a home or commercial environment. 

The application is able to present all the dishes, so that user could pick some dishes from them arbitrarily. Upon browsing dishes, user will also be able to locate a dish and the directions for it by using the application. Users are able to find a range of dishes by ingredient or by ethnic origin. After located a dish, user could also see the corresponding certain dietary restrictions.

The user will have complete control over what recipes they would like to add to or delete from the collection, by using the application, user could even create their own recipe. Apart from that, user could also share recipes by using the application via multiple way, which could make the application handy for people with different background.

Chef's Collection will let users organize their collection. User are free to add the dishes they like to their favourites any time they want. The user will also be able to create, name and manage their own groups of dishes which will be useful for themes, holidays, diets etc. The app will also maintain a history of previously/recently viewed recipes. Users are able to choose what history or groups of dishes need to be shown, and what needs to be deleted.

The users may want to further customize or personalize the recipes within the app. Chef's Collection will allow the users to leave notes on the recipes such as variation to the directions, or comments on how the last attempt turned out. The user could also leave ratings on the recipe so that even though it is in the collection, they have recorded more information on how good the recipe turns out. The layout and display organization of the recipe can also be customized by the user.

In a kitchen environment, domestic or commercial, the ability to quickly find a recipe is not always possible with traditional or modern methods.  The use of Chef’s collection is a significant improvement over paper-based recipes which is not easy to search or view and paper recipes could also be lost or damaged. Cookbook recipes and other paper recipes are also hard to share/duplicate, unlike our Chef’s Collection recipes. Chef’s collection will be versatile compared with paper-based recipes and meet the diverse needs of most cooks/users because it will allow users to manage their own lists and collections and having the ability to personalize the recipes. Chef’s collection would also be more efficient and easier to use than web-based recipes because it will not be cluttered with ads, blogs and other useless info, as well Chef’s Collection will be fully functional offline.

The project would be a success if at least half of the people used this app prefer it to other recipe collection applications, and chef's collection would be their first choice to look up a recipe when they want to cook. And also, if time people spend on finding recipes using chef's collection is 20 percent less than finding recipes using other methods (like using a cooking book etc).
